3362 - Review Draft Scripts for Event Bus Videos (#67)
department-of-veterans-affairs/ves-event-bus-developer-portal: docs/videos/video-1-script-draft.txt

Discovering Enterprise Event Bus or What is Event Bus?

> Event Bus is an event processing system that offers asynchronous and real-time event transfer between systems within the VA. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Event Bus is an event processing system that offers asynchronous and real-time event data transfer between systems within the VA. 
```

    - What Is An Event?

> An event in this context is data describing something that took place in a VA system. Examples of things that could be events include medical claim processing information, contact center ticket information, or Veteran personal data updates. Any data that would be useful to share between systems immediately as soon it's available could be packaged into an event.

Reviewer: This is an area in our research where we found a lack of understanding about what an event represents. Just giving examples of what an event might be doesn't help to add context. The last sentence of this paragraph does a better job of explaining what an event is than the examples themselves. Maybe switch the last two sentences?

Reviewer: Explaining that an event is _data_ , showing a before and after slice of an event data object, and highlighting even a timestamp change and then explaining why that is an event, might be helpful.

Author: Planning on adding some visuals to accompany, so I can try and do this as part of the visual portion.

    - The Problem

Currently, many VA systems poll for data infrequently, and between many layers of systems. This means an update to one system may take days or months to be updated across systems as the data is slowly requested by each system from another on their own schedules. Not only that, but not all systems are connected or get data from the same source; something that is updated in one place may not ever reach other systems. 

    - The Solution

> Event Bus offers a solution to both of these problems. By providing a system that reads from a source and offers the data in a specialized output stream in real-time, client systems can stay connected and receive data as it is available. Every system can connect to the same real-time output stream, reducing the need for slow inter-system polling and connections to many dependent systems. If a Veteran updates their address in one source, it can be fed into Event Bus and all systems can be notified at once, as it happens. No more slow propagation and compiling data from many systems!

Reviewer 2: and connections -- > one to one connections

>    - But Wait, Theres More

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - But Wait, There's More
```

> Event Bus also offers more. By using an event streaming platform called Kafka and providing a high-uptime single source of data, Event Bus sidesteps some of the reliability issues other systems have. Even in the event of connectivity issues or client downtime, Kafka allows for the ability to temporarily keep outbound data in its output stream and keep track of where each client had last read. As soon as the issue is resolved the data is flowing again right where you left off, with no need to manually query for it or figure out what the last thing processed was.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Event Bus also offers more. By using an event streaming platform called Kafka and providing a high-uptime single source of data, Event Bus sidesteps some of the reliability issues other systems have. In the event of connectivity issues or client downtime, Kafka allows for the ability to temporarily keep events in its output stream and track where in the stream each client last consumed an event. When the issue is resolved, the data is still available right where you left off, with no need to manually query for it or figure out which event was last processed.
```

    - The State of the Bus

> As of August 2024, Event Bus is set up with a production environment and ready to serve clients. Hosted on LHDI (our AWS platform) we are fully deployed as a production service and ready for producers and clients to integrate with. We're currently working with the BIP team, BMT, and VA Profile teams to get their events flowing through the Event Bus. 

Author: Thanks for this more detailed explanation!
